# Implementation-of-DDS-for-WCDMA-Transceiver-on-FPGA
A direct digital synthesizer (DDS) for WCDMA up and down conversion on FPGA using Xilinx Vivado. 

Proposed System:
The DDS consists of a phase accumulator, a phase to amplitude converter and a D/A converter. The phase accumulator is basically a n-bit full adder and a n-bit register. The output of phase accumulator is a phase data which is incremented in step using a frequency control word or a step in. this step in value depends on the input clock frequency, the desired frequency and the look up table depth. The phase t accumulator is a look up table or a ROM which provides sine and cosine values depending upon the phase value provided by phase accumulator. The two methods used in this paper are without phase dithering and with phase dithering. In DDS without phase dithering the phase accumulator is truncated and only the integer part is used to generate phase. While in phase dithered DDS the noise is added to the accumulator as shown in which is the decimal or fractional part and later only the integer bits are used to generate phase. The phase to amplitude converter is a ROM based LUT. It provides with the sine or cosine values depending on the phase generated by phase accumulator. The reason to use phase dithering is it will provide with better, smooth sine or cosine output for same desired frequency and LUT depth compared to the DDS without phase dithering. This is how memory usage is saved. For DDS without phase dithering, to generate same smoothed output with same step size it would have needed a bigger LUT depth.

Note: The LUT is not in the project.
